Now let's explore work types and how, by identifying and using them
appropriately, they will improve your workflow.
Let's look at some examples of work types by reviewing a
sampling of work item type definitions.
You may have type definitions for different sizes of user stories,
for example, such as epic, feature, and story.
Maybe you have type definitions for different types of bugs,
for example, production or developer‑driven bugs.
Next, type definitions for different types of maintenance tasks,
such as database administration, refactoring, and data
archiving. Our last example, type definitions for
different types of service requests.
A red hot item, it's got to get done ASAP, or a task that must
be done in less than 4 hours, or a task that must be done in
less than 12 hours. So you can have type definitions for
anything you want, so get creative.
As you can see,
the sky is the limit on what types make sense for you, and for
each type, what are the choices of values?
Keep them short and sweet for easy comprehension.
Let's investigate the backlog and see what stuff is in
there and try to make some sense of it.
As we peer into the backlog,
we may see the following, features, bugs and production defects,
user stories or use cases, change requests,
some random issue blocking work, suggestions and research.
The more variability you have with the types of work,
the harder it will be to define your work‑in‑progress limits and
your ability to predict your workflow time.
Therefore,
consider negotiating first with your upstream partner to see if
backlog item types can be simplified or normalized.
It might be that when you take a deeper dive into the work types,
that maybe you want two Kanban teams. It might be that the volume
of work is so great in the area of bugs that focusing a team on
bugs and one on requirements might make sense, so I just wanted you
to think about that.
Now let's see what might make a good type to standardize for the work type of
requirements. You might consider normalizing your feature and general
requirement backlog work types into use cases as your main work type, and when I
use the term use cases, I also mean user stories.
They are somewhat interchangeable terms. These are business rules,
but written from a user's perspective in the user's business language.
Many of the work types in the previous page could
be very unstructured and fuzzy, therefore,
harder to deal with and plan for. The better the structure of the backlog item,
the better the understanding by all.
Okay, here's a nice template to help you normalize your backlog work types.
As a type of user,
I want to accomplish some goal so that some reason, something happens.
Okay,
the type of user is the who, or the role; some goal is what you're
trying to accomplish; and the some reason is the benefit,
or outcome, of doing the use case in the first place.
Here's a further example.
As a student,
I want to register so that I can take a class, very
clear and very straightforward.
A common,
well‑understood work type will enhance your team's productivity, and
if you're given all sorts of stuff in your backlog,
then in your specify step you could convert them into user stories or
use cases and have them flow through like that.
This would help normalize your workflow in the event you can't
influence the structure of the backlog and you can't negotiate a
better backlog construct with your upstream partner. Now, I'm not
saying everything is a user story either.
You'll have bugs, and maintenance, and service work types,
certainly, so this approach would work best for requirements,
features, and maybe some research or development.
Maybe those kinds of work types can be generalized and
normalized into the structure we talked about. Is more or fewer
work types best for efficient workflow?
Well, let's find out. If you treat all work the same,
that is,
do not use the notion of work types at all, it is likely there is a greater
variation of level of effort, skills required, priority levels, and risk, to
just name a few. By segmenting work out by type of work,
you can provide greater predictability of outcome.
To have the ability to predict work outcomes is important
to a smooth running Kanban team, hence,
more work types would increase workflow, but,
of course, don't have too many.
Please note, Kanban has such wonderful flexibility there
could be exceptions to this notion as well, but in general, having a few more is better than not having enough.